<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY appname '<application>Tellico</application>'>
  <!ENTITY kappname "&appname;">
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE"><!-- change language only here -->

  <!ENTITY robby "Robby Stephenson">
  <!ENTITY email "robby@periapsis.org">
  <!ENTITY homepage "http://www.periapsis.org/tellico/">
  <!ENTITY maillist "http://forge.novell.com/mailman/listinfo/tellico-users">
  <!ENTITY xml "<acronym>XML</acronym>">
  <!ENTITY xslt "<acronym>XSLT</acronym>">
  <!ENTITY html "<acronym>HTML</acronym>">
  <!ENTITY css "<acronym>CSS</acronym>">

  <!ENTITY group-view "<interface>Group View</interface>">
  <!ENTITY detailed-view "<interface>Column View</interface>">
  <!ENTITY entry-view "<interface>Entry View</interface>">
  <!ENTITY entry-editor "<interface>Entry Editor</interface>">
  <!ENTITY icon-view "<interface>Icon View</interface>">
  <!ENTITY fields-dialog "<interface>Collection Fields Dialog</interface>">
  <!ENTITY fetch-dialog "<interface>Internet Search Dialog</interface>">
  <!ENTITY config-dialog "<interface>Configuration Dialog</interface>">
  <!ENTITY find-dialog "<interface>Find Dialog</interface>">
  <!ENTITY quick-filter "<interface>Quick Filter</interface>">
  <!ENTITY filter-dialog "<interface>Advanced Filter Dialog</interface>">
  <!ENTITY loan-dialog "<interface>Loan Dialog</interface>">
  <!ENTITY report-dialog "<interface>Report Dialog</interface>">
  <!ENTITY shortcut-dialog "<interface>Keyboard Shortcut Configuration Dialog</interface>">
  <!ENTITY toolbar-dialog "<interface>Toolbar Configuration Dialog</interface>">
  <!ENTITY filter-view "<interface>Filter View</interface>">
  <!ENTITY loan-view "<interface>Loan View</interface>">
  
  <!ENTITY fundamentals-chapter SYSTEM "fundamentals.docbook">
  <!ENTITY importing-exporting-chapter SYSTEM "importing-exporting.docbook">
  <!ENTITY configuration-chapter SYSTEM "configuration.docbook">
  <!ENTITY fields-chapter SYSTEM "fields.docbook">
  <!ENTITY menus-chapter SYSTEM "menus.docbook">
  <!ENTITY advanced-chapter SYSTEM "advanced.docbook">
  <!ENTITY hacking-chapter SYSTEM "hacking.docbook">
  <!ENTITY faqs-chapter SYSTEM "faqs.docbook">
  <!ENTITY details-chapter SYSTEM "details.docbook">

]>

<!-- ................................................................ -->

<!-- The language must NOT be changed here. -->

<book lang="&language;">

<!-- This header contains all of the meta-information for the document such
as Authors, publish date, the abstract, and Keywords -->

<bookinfo>

<!-- Date and version information of the documentation
Don't forget to include this last date and this last revision number, we
need them for translation coordination !
Please respect the format of the date (DD/MM/YYYY) and of the version
(V.MM.LL), it could be used by automation scripts.
Do NOT change these in the translation. -->
<date>02/01/2008</date>
<releaseinfo>1.3</releaseinfo>

<title>The &appname; Handbook</title>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Robby</firstname>
<surname>Stephenson</surname>
<affiliation>
<address><email>&email;</email></address>
</affiliation>
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<copyright>
<year>2001</year>
<year>2002</year>
<year>2003</year>
<year>2004</year>
<year>2005</year>
<year>2006</year>
<year>2007</year>
<year>2008</year>
<holder>&robby;</holder>
</copyright>

<!-- Translators: put here the copyright notice of the translation -->
<!-- Put here the FDL notice.  Read the explanation in fdl-notice.docbook 
     and in the FDL itself on how to use it. -->
<legalnotice>
<para>Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the &GNU; Free Documentation License,
Version 1.1 or any later version published by the Free Software
Foundation; with &FDLInvariantSections;, with &FDLFrontCoverText;, and
with &FDLBackCoverText;.  A copy of the license is included in
<xref linkend="gnu-fdl"/>.</para>

<para>The author of this documentation has also granted you permission to use
the content under the terms of the <ulink
url="freebsd-doc-license.html">FreeBSD Documentation License</ulink>, if you so choose.
See the notice in the <link linkend="gnu-fdl">licensing section</link>.</para>
</legalnotice>
<!--<legalnotice>&FDLNotice;</legalnotice>-->

<legalnotice>
<para>This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of version 2 of the &GNU; General Public
License as published by the Free Software Foundation.</para>

<para>This program is distributed in the hope that it will be
useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty
of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the &GNU;
General Public License for more details.</para>

<para>You should have received a copy of the &GNU; General Public
License along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifh Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA.</para>
</legalnotice>
<!--<legalnotice>&GPLNotice;</legalnotice>-->

<!-- Abstract about this handbook -->

<abstract>
<para>
This document is a handbook for using &appname;, a collection manager software application.
</para>
</abstract>

<!-- This is a set of Keywords for indexing by search engines.
Please at least include KDE, the KDE package it is in, the name
 of your application, and a few relevant keywords. -->

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>tellico</keyword>
<keyword>book</keyword>
<keyword>bibliography</keyword>
<keyword>movie</keyword>
<keyword>collection</keyword>
<keyword>database</keyword>
<keyword>catalog</keyword>
</keywordset>

</bookinfo>

<!-- The contents of the documentation begin here.  Label each chapter
so with the id attribute. This is necessary for two reasons: it allows
you to easily reference the chapter from other chapters of your
document, and if there is no ID, the name of the generated HTML files
will vary from time to time making it hard to manage for maintainers
and for the CVS system. Any chapter labelled (OPTIONAL) may be left
out at the author's discretion. Other chapters should not be left out
in order to maintain a consistent documentation style across all KDE
apps. -->

<chapter id="introduction">
<title>Introduction</title>

<!-- The introduction chapter contains a brief introduction for the
application that explains what it does and where to report
problems. Basically a long version of the abstract.  Don't include a
revision history. (see installation appendix comment) -->

<sect1 id="tellico-intro">
<title>&appname;</title>

<para>
&appname; is a program for managing collections. It began as a simple
book collection manager, and has expanded to include default
collection templates for bibliographies, comic books, videos, music,
coins, stamps, trading cards, video games, wines, board games, and file listings.
In addition, custom collections can be built for any other type of collectibles.
</para>

<sect2 id="what-tellico-is">
<title>What &appname; Is</title>

<para>
&appname; keeps track of the items in a collection, and offers
an easy way to enter data for each entry. It provides several
field types, and allows for an unlimited number of
user-defined fields. The entries in a collection may be grouped by any
field for easy organization, and customizable views show as much or as
little information as you like.
</para>

<para>
Loans may be tracked, with optional integration with &korganizer;. Collections may be
imported or exported using a variety of formats, to allow for easy exchange
or publication of data.
</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="what-tellico-is-not">
<title>What &appname; Is Not</title>

<para>
&appname; is not an audio or video player. It does not provide
facilities for reading or modifying multimedia files. It also does
not provide any image-editing functionality. Although &appname; has some
functionality for managing bibliography lists, it is not a full-blown
bibliographic reference manager. &appname; also does not pretend to have
all the capabilities of a full-fledged relational database. 
</para>

<para>
As somewhat of a disclaimer, &appname; is a hobby for the author, and no
guarantees are made about its functionality, usefullness, or otherwise. It's
very far from being a professional software package. More information is included
in the <link linkend="gnu-fdl">license declaration</link>.
</para>

</sect2>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="terminology">
<title>Terminology</title>

<sect2 id="collections">
<title>Collections</title>
<para>
In &appname;, a collection is the document. Only one collection exists in each &appname;
file. A collection contains any number of <link linkend="fields">fields</link> and
<link linkend="entries">entries</link>. &appname; supports 12 specific collection types by
default: books, bibliographic entries, comic books, videos, music, trading cards, coins, stamps,
video games, wines, board games, and file listings. In addition, an empty generic collection
template is available for any other type of collectibles or lists.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="fields">
<title>Collection Fields</title>
<para>
Each collection may have an unlimited number of fields. &appname; supports eleven types of fields,
which allow for a range of different data. The fields can be edited with the
<link linkend="fields-dialog">&fields-dialog;</link> and are explained further in the
<link linkend="field-types">Field Types</link> section.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="entries">
<title>Collection Entries</title>

<para>
An entry is the basic record in &appname;. Each entry contains a single value for each field in
the collection. A collection may have an unlimited number of entries, in theory, although since
the whole collection is always resident in memory, too many entries could slow down the application.
</para>

<para>
&appname; has been tested with a collection of 10,000 entries, and the speed was satisfactory.
However, if many large images are included in the collection, the loading and processing time
does slow down greatly. Performance can be improved by having &appname; store images separate from
the data file itself, either in the application-specific folder or a folder relative to
the data file. More information can be found in the
<link linkend="configuration">configuration section</link>.
</para>

</sect2>

</sect1>

</chapter>

&fundamentals-chapter;

&details-chapter;

&importing-exporting-chapter;

&advanced-chapter;

&configuration-chapter;

&hacking-chapter;

&faqs-chapter;

&menus-chapter;

<chapter id="credits">

<!-- Include credits for the programmers, documentation writers, and
contributors here. The license for your software should then be
included below the credits with a reference to the appropriate license
file included in the KDE distribution. -->

<title>Credits and License</title>

<para>
&appname;
</para>
<para>
Program copyright 2001-2008 &robby; <email>&email;</email>
</para>

&underGPL;        	 <!-- GPL License -->

<para>
Documentation copyright 2001-2008 &robby; <email>&email;</email>
</para>

<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->

<para id="gnu-fdl" xreflabel="the section entitled &quot;GNU Free Documentation
License&quot;">This documentation is licensed under the terms of the <ulink
url="common/fdl-license.html">&GNU; Free Documentation
License (GFDL)</ulink>.</para>

<para>The author of this documentation has also granted you permission to use the content under the terms of the <ulink
url="freebsd-doc-license.html">FreeBSD Documentation License</ulink>, if you so choose. If you wish to allow use of your version of this content only under the terms of the FreeBSD Documentation License, and not to allow others to use your version of this file under the terms of the GFDL, indicate your decision by deleting the GFDL notice and replacing it with the notice and other provisions required by the FreeBSD Documentation License. If you do not delete the GFDL notice above, a recipient may use your version of this file under the terms of either the GFDL or the FreeBSD Documentation License.</para>

</chapter>

<appendix id="installation">
<title>Installation</title>

<sect1 id="getting-tellico">
<title>How to obtain &appname;</title>

<para>
The &appname; home page can be found at
<ulink url="&homepage;">&homepage;</ulink>.
Updates and news can be found there.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="requirements">
<title>Requirements</title>

<!--
List any special requirements for your application here. This should include:
.Libraries or other software that is not included in kdesupport,
kdelibs, or kdebase.
.Hardware requirements like amount of RAM, disk space, graphics card
capabilities, screen resolution, special expansion cards, etc.
.Operating systems the app will run on. If your app is designed only for a
specific OS, (you wrote a graphical LILO configurator for example) put this
information here.
-->

<para>
In order to successfully use &appname;, you need &kde; 3.3.1.
&appname; uses about 5 megabytes of memory to run, but this may vary
depending on your platform, configuration, and most of all, your collection size.
</para>

<para>
&kde; can be found at <ulink url="http://www.kde.org">the &kde; home page</ulink>.
</para>

<!-- For a list of updates, you may refer to the application web site
or the ChangeLog file, or ... -->
<para>
You can find a list of changes at <ulink
url="&homepage;">&homepage;</ulink>.
</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="compilation">
<title>Compilation and Installation</title>

<para>
In order to compile and install &appname; on your system, type the following
in the base folder of the archive, where the third step must be done as
root if you are installing in a system folder:

<screen width="40">
<prompt>%</prompt> <userinput>./configure <option>--enable-final</option> <option>--disable-debug</option></userinput>
<prompt>%</prompt> <userinput>make</userinput>
<prompt>%</prompt> <userinput>make install</userinput>
</screen>
</para>

<para>Since &appname; uses autoconf and automake you should not have
any trouble compiling it. Should you run into problems please report
them to the author at <email>&email;</email>.</para>

<sect2 id="compilation-ooo">
<title>Compiling With OpenOffice.org</title>
<para>
&appname; uses a special plugin for communicating with OpenOffice.org, which is not compiled by default.
The Software Development &kit;, available from <ulink url="http://www.openoffice.org/dev_docs/source/sdk/">
http://www.openoffice.org/dev_docs/source/sdk/</ulink>, is required.

<screen width="40">
<prompt>%</prompt> <userinput>./configure <option>--enable-ooo</option> <option>--with-ooo-dir</option>=<filename class="directory">/usr/lib/openoffice</filename> <option>--with-ooo-sdk-dir</option>=<filename class="directory">/usr/lib/openoffice/SDK</filename></userinput>
</screen>

You'll need to use the correct locations of the OpenOffice.org libraries and SDK, of course.
</para>

<para>
In addition, some distributions may require you to modify the <filename>/etc/ld.so.conf</filename> file
or add a configuration file to the <filename class="directory">/etc/ld.so.conf.d</filename> directory. Check
to see if the OpenOffice.org plugin works without any changes first. If it doesn't, try editing
<filename>/etc/ld.so.conf</filename> and adding the location of the OpenOffice.org libraries, the same as
you used for the <filename>configure</filename> script.
For additional help, use the <ulink url="&maillist;">&appname; Mailing List</ulink>
</para>
</sect2>

</sect1>

</appendix>

&documentation.index;

</book>
<!--
Local Variables:
mode: sgml
sgml-minimize-attributes:nil
sgml-general-insert-case:lower
sgml-indent-step:0
sgml-indent-data:nil
End:
-->
