<chapter id="collections">
<title>Collection Types</title>

<para>
&bookcase; supports nine specific collection types by default: books, bibliographic entries, comic books, videos, music, trading cards, coins, stamps, and wines. In addition, an empty generic collection template is available for any other collectibles.
</para>

<sect1 id="book-collection">
<title>Book Collections</title>
<para>
Book collections have 26 default fields:
<emphasis>Title</emphasis>,
<emphasis>Subtitle</emphasis>,
<emphasis>Author</emphasis>,
<emphasis>Binding</emphasis>,
<emphasis>Purchase Date</emphasis>,
<emphasis>Purchase Price</emphasis>,
<emphasis>Publisher</emphasis>,
<emphasis>Edition</emphasis>,
<emphasis>Copyright Year</emphasis>,
<emphasis>Publication Year</emphasis>,
<emphasis>ISBN#</emphasis>,
<emphasis>LCCN#</emphasis>,
<emphasis>Pages</emphasis>,
<emphasis>Language</emphasis>,
<emphasis>Genre</emphasis>,
<emphasis></emphasis>,
<emphasis></emphasis>,
<emphasis></emphasis>,
<emphasis></emphasis>,
<emphasis></emphasis>,
<emphasis></emphasis>,
<emphasis></emphasis>,
<emphasis></emphasis>,
<emphasis></emphasis>,
<emphasis></emphasis>,
<emphasis></emphasis>,
</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="bibliography">
<title>Bibliographies</title>
<para>
Bibliographies have ?? default fields.
</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="comic-book-collection">
<title>Comic Book Collections</title>
<para>
Comic book collections have ?? default fields.
</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="video-collection">
<title>Video Collections</title>
<para>
Video collections have ?? default fields.
</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="musi-collection">
<title>Music Collections</title>
<para>
Music collections have ?? default fields.
</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="card-collection">
<title>Book Collections</title>
<para>
Trading card collections have ?? default fields.
</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="coin-collection">
<title>Book Collections</title>
<para>
Coin collections have ?? default fields.
</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="stamp-collection">
<title>Book Collections</title>
<para>
cStamp ollections have ?? default fields.
</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="wine-collection">
<title>Book Collections</title>
<para>
Wine collections have ?? default fields.
</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="custom-collection">
<title>Custom Collections</title>
<para>
Custom collections only have one default field.
</para>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term>Title</term>
<listitem><para>The title is a standard <emphasis>Simple Field</emphasis>.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect1>

</chapter>
