<chapter id="faqs">
<title>Questions and Answers</title>

<!-- (OPTIONAL but recommended) This chapter should include all of the silly
(and not-so-silly) newbie questions that fill up your mailbox. This chapter
should be reserved for BRIEF questions and answers! If one question uses more
than a page or so then it should probably be part of the
"Using this Application" chapter instead. You should use links to
cross-reference questions to the parts of your documentation that answer them.
This is also a great place to provide pointers to other FAQ's if your users
must do some complicated configuration on other programs in order for your
application work. -->

<qandaset id="faqlist">

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do I start the program?</para>
</question>
<answer>

<para>After downloading and unpacking Bookcase, run
<userinput><command>configure</command>
<option>--disable-debug</option>
<option>--enable-final</option></userinput> to configure
everything. You may need to modify some of the command line
options. After that, running
<userinput><command>make</command></userinput> will compile
Bookcase. Then, as root, run <userinput><command>make
install</command></userinput> to install everything. Being root is
only necessary if you install somewhere where you don't have write
permissions. The command line to start Bookcase is
<userinput><command>bookcase</command></userinput>. If you install one
of the pre-packaged binaries, a menu item will be inserted for
Bookcase.  </para>

</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do I enter multiple authors?</para>
</question>
<answer>

<para>Author names should be separated by a semi-colon, like so:
"Brian W. Kernighan; Dennis M. Ritchie" (without the quotes). Don't
include the word "and" or anything similar, even if you have 20
authors. If you have the auto-format option checked, then the last
name will automatically be shown first for each author.</para>

<para>Other properties which allow multiple values, like "genre" and
"keywords", are entered in the same way, with a semi-colon (;)
separating each value.</para>

</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>Can I modify what the printed page looks like?</para>
</question>
<answer>

<para>Yes, most certainly. Find the file bookcase-printing.xsl which
 should be in the $KDEDIR/share/apps/bookcase/ directory. You can copy
 that to $KDEHOME/share/apps/bookcase/ for personal modifications.
 You'll have to know <ulink
 url="http://www.w3.org/TR/xslt">XSLT</ulink>, but modifying that file
 is how you change the printing layout. HTML is generated from the
 file, and the easiest way to change the appearance of the printout is
 to modify the CSS in the top portiong. Feel free to <ulink
 url="mailto:&email;">email me</ulink> with questions.  If I end up
 with some alternate XSLT printing files, I'll put them on <ulink
 url="&homepage;">the Bookcase website</ulink>.</para>

</answer>
</qandaentry>
<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do I group by a property other than the ones listed in the toolbar?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>
To allow grouping by a field which doesn't allow grouping by default, check the
"Allow Grouping" box for that particular field in the "Collection Fields" dialog.
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do I rename my book collection?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>In the left side column, right-click on the top-level item representing
the collection. Select the "Rename Collection" option.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question><para>Why does all that gobbledy-gook show up when I run &bookcase;?</para></question>
<answer>
<para>Stuff like:
<screen width="40">
<computeroutput>Bookcase::updateCollectionToolBar</computeroutput>
<computeroutput>BCGroupView::setGroupAttribute - author</computeroutput>
<computeroutput>BCGroupView::slotAddCollection</computeroutput>
<computeroutput>QCheckBox::property( "title" ) failed: property invalid
or does not exist</computeroutput>
</screen>

is debug info. At compile time, this can be stopped by compiling with
the <userinput><option>--disable-debug</option></userinput> flag. You
might also want to use
<userinput><option>--enable-final</option></userinput>, too, which
takes a bit more memory when compiling, but is more efficient when
running the application.</para>

<para>The last message is slightly different, it just means your Qt
 installation was compiled with some debugging information.</para>

<para>Or, if &bookcase; is already installed, run
<userinput><command>kdebugdialog</command></userinput> and make sure
that "0 (generic)" is unchecked. That turns off debug messages from
all generic KDE apps i.e. those not distributed officially by
KDE.</para>

</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question><para>How do I change which columns are shown?</para></question>
<answer>
<para>Right-click on the header bar. You can also drag the headers to re-order
the columns, and click on them to sort by that field.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question><para>How do I filter by something like the "Read"
field?</para></question>
<answer>
<para>Internally, the checkbox
fields in &bookcase; are saved as "true", so if you'd like to filter
to show only the science fiction books which you've not read, for
example, then you have two rules. Make sure the "Match all of the
following" button is checked. Set the first rule to have "Genre"
"contains" "Science Fiction" (no quotes) and the second rule to have
"Read" "does not contain" "true" (no quotes).</para>

<para>Also, the quick filter in the toolbar will match any field,
and if there is a non-word character, the text is interpreted as a
regular expression. So if you quickly want to filter your books to
show those by Weber or Bujold, then type "weber|bujold" (no quotes) in
the toolbar.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question><para>How do I add new entry templates?</para></question>

<answer>
<para>Entry templates should be saved in
<filename>$<envar>KDEHOME</envar>/share/apps/bookcase/entry-templates/</filename>
for access for a single user or
<filename>$<envar>KDEDIR</envar>/share/apps/bookcase/entry-templates/</filename>
for access by everyone. Templates in $<envar>KDEHOME</envar> will
override any files by the same name in $<envar>KDEDIRS</envar>. The
entry templates can be set on a per collection-type basis in the
settings dialog.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question><para>Compiling and installing went
fine, but when &bookcase; starts up, the window is blank. What's
wrong?</para></question>

<answer>
<para>KDE programs look for data in the locations defined in the
 $<envar>KDEDIRS</envar> environmental variable. If you install in
 <filename>/usr/local</filename> for example, but
 $<envar>KDEDIRS</envar> is empty or just <filename>/usr</filename>,
 then &bookcase; won't be able to find the files it needs. This is
 particularly true for SuSE, for which you should compile with
 <userinput><option>--prefix</option>=<filename>/opt/kde3</filename></userinput>. Alternatively,
 you could add a line to your <filename>.profile</filename> file to
 set $<envar>KDEDIRS</envar>. Check the documentation for your
 shell.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question><para>How do I export additional bibtex fields?</para></question>
<answer>
<para>&bookcase; uses the <emphasis>bibtex</emphasis> property to know how to export
 bibtex fields. If you want to add additional fields to export, such
 as an abstract, open up the &fields-dialog;, and click the <guibutton>Extended
 Properties</guibutton> button. Add a <emphasis>bibtex</emphasis> property with value
 <emphasis>abstract</emphasis>. Then, when you export to bibtex or bibtexml, that
 property will be used for the bibtex field name.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

</qandaset>
</chapter>
